Intorduction to predictive analytics?

WHat is predictive analytics?

1. A set of BI apps and technologies that uncovers the patterns within large voluimes of data that can be used to predict behavious and events

CASE STUDY - NETFLIX:

Recommendation engine, predict the likelihood of shows to be watched next...

Match.com

Big data concepts from Bachelor's course of last semester. Insights about BIG DATA + HADOOP + HIVE + PIG and other Big Data tools

Google trend analysis:

High level review and macro scale look up

1. More people look for business analytics than business intelkligence

and for Big Data growth has a good growth in search results from 2005 ot 2013

"Hadoop" has a steady trend all over 2005 to 2013


Predictive Analytics in Action EXAMPLE


A VP sales is tasked with completoing sakes objectives for the sales staff, and financial planning for the CFO

1. How will the develop an apptoproate forecast target for this customer?
2. Will thwy show an overall sales decline stagnent sales or sales growth
3. How do they reach this conclusion:
	1. Some sales professionals will conservatively estimate (SANDBAG) approach the overall sales growth so that they can readiluy obtain their performance objectives
	2. Another approach that sales professioanls will take involves simple averaging of the sales trends over a peroiod of time.

4. TOP DOWN APPROACH:Simple averaging is a naive approach and cannot be iomplemented organization wide


2012 = 7.15% >>>2013 = +1.5% >>> 2014 = +4.5 (Simple averaging) OLD SCHOOL METHOD

ARIMA TIME SERIES TECHNIQUE


Categorizing the graph from data is important whether the data shows TREND, OR SEASONAL, OR RANDOM


The Arima time series stats model breaks down the product sale s quantities into three fundamnetal compopnents, Seasomnality, Random, and Fluctuations.

These components together constitute a powerful modeliing and forecast approximation.

Customer Level Forecast approaches include:

1. Consider seasonality
2. Trending
3. Purchasing Techniques















