Introduction to Business Intelliegence:

Challeneges facing Decision makers:
1. frequent decision making without information they need
2. Dont have complete information OR they are restricted to use the top level management information they needed to complete the job
3. 19+ hours spent to figure the structure of the data and information

WHAT IS BI???
1. Refers to skills, processes, technologies, applications, practices, used to support decisiomn making
2. Gathering, storing, providing access to data to help clients make better business decisions.

Improving Orgs, by providing business insightes to all eployees leading to better faster more relevant decisions.

GET THE RIGHT INFORMATION TO RIGHT PEOPLE AT RIGHT TIME

- improve operational efficiency
- Eliminate report backlogs and ddelyas
- Find root causes and take action
- negotiate better contracts and suppliers
- inventory managheemnt and wasted resources
- sell information to customers partners and suppliers
- market analysis, imporve strategies
- Give users the means to make better decisions.
- Challeneg assumptions with factual information

WHY BI?

Evolution

Analytics (Tactical & Strategic)--->Optimization - Whats the best that can happen?
Analytics (Tactical & Strategic)--->Predictive Modelling - What will happen next?
Analytics (Tactical & Strategic)--->Forecasting/exploration - What if these trends comntinue?
Analytics (Tactical & Strategic)--->Statistical analysis - Why is this happening?
Data Acces and reporting (Operational)--->Alerts - What actions are needed?
Data Acces and reporting (Operational)--->Query / Drill down - What exactly is the problem?
Data Acces and reporting (Operational)--->Ad Hoc Reports - How many? how often? Where?
Data Acces and reporting (Operational)--->Standard report - What Happened?


Data Warehousing:

Operation Data          |
Customer data		|
Manfg Data		|=====>   Extract And transform (ETM)--> Data Warehouse (Central repository)  - Information Directory <---> Data Analytics,OLAP, Data Visualization and Data Mining
Historical data		|
External data        	|

Challenges of Busilding BI SOLS:

1. Data exist in multiple spaces
2. Data is not formatted to support complex analysis
3. Differenrt kinds of workers have differnet data needs
4. What kind of data is needed to be examined and at waht level
5. How will user interact with the data?

Being a Data Scientist is like a De Facto IT professional

BI must be in the top level catorgories of business operations and should be a priority in the organization to understand the potential of the Data

A BI evangelist or a professional, has to develop data infrastructure and guidance of management and refined to address the KPIs for the various business disciplines

We should then develop objective performance measurements afor the respective areas breaking down thesse KPIs

Have a bottom up approach in critical order to identify cost saving opportunities and eliminate ineffective processes


















